# PensionCalculator
This project report will introduce how to build Pension calculator system using the python language using the Jupyter Notebook and also use MYSQL for database end to store data of user. Jupyter Notebook is an open source application frame work which is used to write Python code. MySQL, pronounced either "My S-Q-L" or "My Sequel," is an open source relational database management system. It is based on the structure query language (SQL), which is used for adding, removing, and modifying information in the database. Standard SQL commands, such as ADD, DROP, INSERT, and UPDATE can be used with MySQL.
PYTHON- Python is an interpreted, high-level and generalpurpose programming language. Created by Guido van Rossum and first released in 1991, Python's design philosophy emphasizes code readability with its notable use of significant whitespace. Its language constructs and object-oriented approach aim to help programmers write clear, logical code for small and large-scale projects.
MYSQL- MySQL is an open-source relational database management system (RDBMS). Its name is a combination of "My", the name of co-founder Michael Widenius's daughter, and"SQL", the abbreviation for Structured Query Language. A relational database organizes data into one or more data tables in which data types may be related to each other; these relations help structure the data. SQL is a language programmer use to create, modify and extract data from the relational database, as well as control user access to the database. In addition to relational databases and SQL, an RDBMS like MySQL works with an operating system to implement a relational database in a computer's storage system, manages users, allows for network access and facilitates testing database integrity and creation of backups.
Project Overview: - We have made this pension calculator with the help of the python language ,in this project we have to enter id name basic pay, special pay, stagnation pay, Qualification pay, fixed pay, other pay, year of service and then press calculate button. In this project we have use MySQL so once you have calculate it get store database, you can check next time without just with entering of id and name. We have use tkinter to make GUI to make it more attractive and make user friendly so that anyone can use this software
Formula of pension calculator: 
• basic Pension = .5 * (Basic Pay + Special Pay + stagnation Pay + QualifationPay1+ Fixed Personal Pay + Other Pay) * Years of Service / 33
• Commutation Amount = basic Pension * Commutation Percent / 100
